0
An assessment of genetic relationships within the genus Digitalis based on PCR-generated RAPD markers.
Neubauer, SG, del Castillo-Agudo, L, Segura, J
2000
--------------------------------
RAPD markers were used to study inter-specific variation among six species of the genus Digitalis: D. obscura D. lanata, D. grandiflora, D. purpurea, D. thapsi and D. dubia, and the hybrid D. excelsior (D. purpurea x D, grandiflora). A total of 91 highly reproducible bands amplified with four arbitrarily chosen decamer primers were obtained. Homology of the coemigrating RAPD markers was tested by blot hybridisation and sequencing of selected bands. The application of a range of statistical approaches for RAPD data analysis, including distance and parsimony methods, family clustering and the analysis of molecular variance (AMOVA), indicated that these molecular markers were taxonomically informative in Digitalis. The species relationships revealed were fully consistent with those previously obtained using morphological affinities. The hy brid D. excelsior seems to have stronger affinity to the section Digitalis than to Grandiflorae. This is the first known report of the application of RAPD markers for the study of genetic relationships among species of the genus Digitalis.


1
Molecular phylogeny of the genera Digitalis L. and Isoplexis (Lindley) Loudon (Veronicaeceae) based on ITS- and trnL-F sequences.
Bräuchler, C, Meimberg H and Heubl, G
2004
--------------------------------



2
Inbreeding depression and outbreeding depression in Digitalis purpurea: optimal outcrossing distance in a tetraploid
Grindeland, JM
2008
--------------------------------
An optimal crossing distance exists within plant populations if inbreeding and outbreeding depression operate simultaneously. In a population of tetraploid Digitalis purpurea, maternal plants were pollinated with donors at four distances: 0 (self-pollination), 1, 6 and 30 m. Lifetime fitness of F1 progeny was investigated in greenhouse experiments, and significant inbreeding and outbreeding depression were detected at five vs. three life history traits. Inbreeding depression increased at later life stages, whereas outbreeding depression was relatively constant. The existence of within-population outbreeding depression suggests substantial genetic structuring at moderate distances in D. purpurea, and corroborates recent findings of significant outbreeding depression in F1 progeny in polyploids. The moderate inbreeding depression found in this predominately outcrossing population supports the notion that effects of inbreeding are less severe in polyploids than in diploids.


