1
RAPD analyses in colonial and ancestral populations of Capsella bursa-pastoris (L) Med (Brassicaceae).
Neuffer, B
1996
--------------------------------
Capsella bursa-pastoris is a neophyte in the New World. It arrived in California not before 200 years ago. Thirteen populations from California, seven from Spain and one from Germany were analyzed with RAPDs in order to trace the introduction history and to study the structure of the colonial populations. The results not only supported earlier hypotheses on the colonization of Capsella which were based in isozyme studies (Hurka, 1993; Hurka ef al, 1989) and phenotypic traits (Hurka and Neuffer, 1991), but helped also to understand the colonization history in more detail. Overall similarity in RAPD markers was greater between Californian Central Valley and Spanish populations than it was between Central Valley and Californian mountain populations. It is concluded that genotypes preadapted to Mediterranean climate conditions were brought to California by Spaniards from Mexico. Their ancestral populations might be found in Spain which is strongly argued far by RAPD markers. They now occupy the Central Valley of California. The Californian mountains are colonized by other genotypes, the source of which is not yet clear, but unlikely to be of Mediterranean climate origin. In general, colonial Californian populations are genetically less variable than the European populations, but more variable than one would conclude by isozyme studies. Population structures of the colonial populations as revealed by RAPD studies are in full accordance with the expected organization of genetic variability within and between populations of a predominantly self colonizing plant.


5
The colonizing history of Capsella in Patagonia (South America) - Molecular and adaptive significance.
Neuffer, B, Hirschle, S, Jager, S
1999
--------------------------------
Twenty-two provenances of Capsella bursa-pastoris (Brassicaceae) from Patagonia and Tierra del Fuego and 13 provenances from the middle part of South America have been investigated for phenotypic traits (flowering, growth form parameters, fruit characters), isozymes (AAT, GDH, LAP), and RAPDs. Capsella is native to Europe and was introduced into South America in the 16th century. In Patagonia, we detected 23 different multilocus associations, but only five occurred in a frequency of more than 5%. By comparison with the geographic distribution patterns of multilocus genotypes in Europe, we inferred the ancestral European gene pools and the possible introduction routes. A particular multilocus genotype (MMG) was most frequent in the investigated area, and is native to the Iberian Peninsula. This genotype was with all probability introduced by Spaniards into central and northern South America, and it could have reached Patagonia from the north step by step. Other genotypes probably used a direct route from Europe, most likely via British sheep farmers in the second half of the 19th century. Rare genotypes in Patagonia may have been introduced recently by chance, or might be due to multilocus rearrangements in connection with rare outcrossing events. RAPD markers helped to trace colonial gene pools outside Europe and ancestral European gene pools and support the isozyme studies. Correlations between the life history traits and allozyme markers give evidence of the role adaptation may play in the colonizing process.


6
Genetic differentiation and reproductive isolation of a naturally occurring floral homeotic mutant within a wild-type population of Capsella bursa-pastoris (Brassicaceae)
Hameister, S Neuffer, B Bleeker, W
2009
--------------------------------
Apart from the common floral architecture in Brassicaceae, variation in
 flower morphology occurs in several genera within the family and is
 considered to affect speciation processes. We analysed genetic
 differentiation and flowering time variation of two floral variants of
 Capsella bursa-pastoris, the Spe variant and the wild-type, which occur
 sympatrically in a vineyard in southwest Germany. The Spe variant is
 characterized by an additional whorl of stamens instead of petals and
 was formerly classified as an independent taxon 'Capsella apetala'
 Opiz. Amplified fragment length polymorphism and allozyme analysis
 revealed a substantial genetic differentiation of the two floral
 variants and a higher genetic variation within the wild-type
 subpopulation compared with the Spe subpopulation. The low genetic
 variation in the mutant provided evidence of a recent local origin or
 recent introduction. Flowering time analysis indicated that, within the
 analysed population, the Spe variant flowers significantly later than
 the wild-type (P < 0.001). We conclude that the evolution and
 persistence of Spe within a wild-type population is facilitated by high
 selfing rates and been enhanced by a shift in flowering phenology.
 Hence, our data provide substantial evidence that the Spe phenotype has
 established itself as an isolated entity within a wild-type population
 and may thus serve as a model for the analysis of the evolutionary
 significance of homeotic mutants in wild populations.


8
DEVELOPMENT OF MICROSATELLITE MARKERS IN CAPSELLA RUBELLA AND CAPSELLA BURSA-PASTORIS (BRASSICACEAE)
Caullet CML, Pernin F, Poncet C, Le Corre V.
2011
--------------------------------
Premise of the study: We developed microsatellite markers to investigate genetic diversity within and among populations of Capsella rubella and Capsella bursa-pastoris and between these two species. Methods and Results: Fourteen polymorphic microsatellite loci were identified in the two species and one more polymorphic microsatellite locus only in C. rubella. Samples from different European localities were genotyped. Up to six alleles per locus were observed in C. rubella, and up to 22 alleles per locus in C. bursa-pastoris. Observed heterozygosities were low, indicating high selfing rates, especially in C. rubella. Conclusions: The results provide valuable information on genetic diversity for future studies of population genetics in C. rubella and C. bursa-pastoris.


9
Native range variation in Capsella bursa-pastoris (Brassicaceae) along a 2500 km latitudinal transect
Neuffer B
2011
--------------------------------
Capsella bursa-pastoris (L) Medik. is a self compatible tetraploid annual species which has successfully spread to most continents and is mostly confined to man-made habitats. The colonising success may be associated with fine-scaled ecotypic differentiation, and regional adaptation. Seeds of 377 individuals from 40 provenances were collected over a distance of more than 2500 km from the Kola Peninsula in the north to the Caspian Sea in the south in Russia and from northern to southern Scandinavia. 3558 progenies were investigated in common garden field experiments in order to distinguish between phenotypic variability and genetic variation of quantitative life-history traits (onset of flowering, rosette diameter, leaf type, plant height, and branching and fruit characters). Genetic diversity and population structure was examined with isozyme analysis. Along both transects, Capsella showed clinal differentiation in phenotypic traits: e.g., the most northern and most southern provenances flowered earlier than the provenances from in between. A highly significant quadratic correlation exists between morphological traits and the degree of latitude. Distribution of leaf types showed no geographical pattern, unlike that observed for other regions. Allozyme variation follows a pattern of isolation by distance.


13
Genomic signature of successful colonization of Eurasia by the allopolyploid shepherd's purse (Capsella bursa-pastoris)
Cornille, A, Salcedo, A, Kryvokhyzha, D, Glemin, S, Holm, K, Wright, SI, Lascoux, M
2016
--------------------------------
Polyploidization is a dominant feature of flowering plant evolution. However, detailed genomic analyses of the interpopulation diversification of polyploids following genome duplication are still in their infancy, mainly because of methodological limits, both in terms of sequencing and computational analyses. The shepherd's purse (Capsella bursa-pastoris) is one of the most common weed species in the world. It is highly self-fertilizing, and recent genomic data indicate that it is an allopolyploid, resulting from hybridization between the ancestors of the diploid species Capsella grandiflora and Capsella orientalis. Here, we investigated the genomic diversity of C.bursa-pastoris, its population structure and demographic history, following allopolyploidization in Eurasia. To that end, we genotyped 261 C.bursa-pastoris accessions spread across Europe, the Middle East and Asia, using genotyping-by-sequencing, leading to a total of 4274 SNPs after quality control. Bayesian clustering analyses revealed three distinct genetic clusters in Eurasia: one cluster grouping samples from Western Europe and Southeastern Siberia, the second one centred on Eastern Asia and the third one in the Middle East. Approximate Bayesian computation (ABC) supported the hypothesis that C.bursa-pastoris underwent a typical colonization history involving low gene flow among colonizing populations, likely starting from the Middle East towards Europe and followed by successive human-mediated expansions into Eastern Asia. Altogether, these findings bring new insights into the recent multistage colonization history of the allotetraploid C.bursa-pastoris and highlight ABC and genotyping-by-sequencing data as promising but still challenging tools to infer demographic histories of selfing allopolyploids.


