Hi,

Catherine, thanks for the information.

Sean, here's a list of things to look out for:
- First, work out how many species have actual information on mating system included in the database.
- For most species, you're only likely to get a qualitative description. There's three broad categories to look out for: (i) outcrossing; (ii) mixed mating; (iii) selfing. Also look out for information on clonal growth.
- Some more extensively–studied plants might have quantitative descriptions of selfing rate.
- Pay attention if there's information on sampling location (e.g., if there's information on mating system, is that given as a general statement or is it based on data from a particular location? So we can work out how applicable such information is to UK floras.)
- Information on compatibility system would be important.

I think that's everything. Have I overlooked anything?

You'll likely have to look at research papers to fill in the gaps. Catherine, do you think it's also worth looking at floras for this information (e.g. Stace)?
----------------------------------------------------------
Hi both,

I was looking to see if the UK plant Atlas data was downloadable and found that
one of the sources for their data is:

"PLANTATT - Attributes of British and Irish plants. (.zip 1455KB) This dataset
was compiled and published in 2004, and last updated in November 2008. Download
includes an Excel spreadsheet of the attributes, and a PDF explaining the
background and nomenclature. Note that the PDF version is the booklet as
published, whereas the Excel spreadsheet incorporates subsequent corrections.”

The link from the Plant Atlas is broken but the dataset is available here:

https://github.com/ropensci/traits/tree/master/inst/PLANTATT_19_Nov_08

It has clonal spread data, rarity data  and lots on the distribution.

The raw data for the distribution maps of the UK Atlas can be requested: 
https://database.bsbi.org/
But I don’t know if we need this level of spatial analysis - the data does not
include the text descriptions which may be best scraped.

Cheers,

Catherine