------------- Description -------------------
#plantat website
------------- Matching Abstracts -------------------
937
#Genet composition of Diphasiastrum complanatum in Western Hungary: a case study.
#Major, A, Odor, P
#1999
--------------------------------
The study includes an investigation of the genetic composition of a marginal ground pine (Diphasiastrum complanatum) population consisting of patches of different size. The genetic analysis was performed on the basis of 15 isozyme loci. The proportion of polymorphic loci was P = 0.466; the sampled 38 ramets were classified into 21 multilocus genotypes (genets); Pielou's clonal diversity index was D = 0.898, Wright's fixation indices over polymorphic loci were -0.070 (0.063) and -0.026 (0.091) at the ramet and genet-level, respectively. The observed and expected ramet-level and genet-level average heterozygosities were not significantly different in spite of the fact that at some loci genotype numbers significantly differed from Hardy-Weinberg proportions. Principal coordinates analysis revealed that the genetic composition of the genets was independent in all but one patch, and spatial autocorrelation analysis revealed significant spatial genetic structure. No individual with homozygous genotypes at all loci was observed, indicating a lack of intragametophytic selfing. Results clearly showed that in addition to clonal growth, sexual reproduction played a substantial role in the establishment and maintenance of the study population at the boundary of the species' distribution, and indicated the importance of microsite conditions.


------------- All Abstracts -------------------
937
#Genet composition of Diphasiastrum complanatum in Western Hungary: a case study.
#Major, A, Odor, P
#1999
--------------------------------
The study includes an investigation of the genetic composition of a marginal ground pine (Diphasiastrum complanatum) population consisting of patches of different size. The genetic analysis was performed on the basis of 15 isozyme loci. The proportion of polymorphic loci was P = 0.466; the sampled 38 ramets were classified into 21 multilocus genotypes (genets); Pielou's clonal diversity index was D = 0.898, Wright's fixation indices over polymorphic loci were -0.070 (0.063) and -0.026 (0.091) at the ramet and genet-level, respectively. The observed and expected ramet-level and genet-level average heterozygosities were not significantly different in spite of the fact that at some loci genotype numbers significantly differed from Hardy-Weinberg proportions. Principal coordinates analysis revealed that the genetic composition of the genets was independent in all but one patch, and spatial autocorrelation analysis revealed significant spatial genetic structure. No individual with homozygous genotypes at all loci was observed, indicating a lack of intragametophytic selfing. Results clearly showed that in addition to clonal growth, sexual reproduction played a substantial role in the establishment and maintenance of the study population at the boundary of the species' distribution, and indicated the importance of microsite conditions.


938
#Resolving maternal relationships in the clubmoss genus Diphasiastrum (Lycopodiaceae)
#Aagaard, SMD Vogel, JC Wikstrom, N
#2009
--------------------------------
Diphasiastrum comprises 20-30 species. In addition to a number of
 species with a circumboreal distribution, several island endemics and
 putative diploid hybrid species contribute to the diversity of the
 group. To assess the integrity and relationships of the recognized
 species, a global phylogeny of Diphasiastrum is constructed using five
 chloroplast regions comprising ca. 9,000 bp. Six monophyletic groups
 are established. Accessions identified as hybrid species cluster in all
 but one case together with one of its putative parents. Allelic
 information combined with sequence information obtained from two
 chloroplast microsatellite loci is found diagnostic for the three
 putative parental taxa in the Central Europe hybrid complexes.
 Haplotype screening is performed on six Central European populations,
 from where one or more putative diploid hybrid species have been
 reported to grow in sympatry with their parent species. The most common
 parental haplotypes are identified in all populations. Additional
 intraspecific variation, restricted to single populations, is
 identified in all sympatric populations at very low frequencies. Taking
 the low degree of sequence and microsatellite variation into
 consideration, the acknowledged morphological diversity in Central
 Europe is probably best explained by phenotypic plasticity, ancestral
 polymorphisms or relatively recent events of reticulate evolution.


